Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 95. In this
episode, Scott talks with Don
C Hayes about the intersection
of physical computing and creative
coding. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And right
now I'm talking with a
coder tinkerer and adjunct professor,
Don C Hayes. How are
you? Great. I appreciate you
coming on to talk to
me today. One of the
reasons I wanted to talk
to you was because it
feels like in your work
you're exploring not just coding,
but the intersection of physical,
physical computing and the creativity
of, of programming and thinking
about it in ways that
I think a lot of
people haven't thought about it
before. Yeah, I think that
was definitely a case when
I first got started, which
was around 2009, I think
then it was more about
just letting people know what,
you know, how basic things
work. Like this is a
microcontroller and this is an
led and this is electricity.
And I think now so
many people were hearing about
things like MakerBot and Arduino
and raspberry PI and, and
it's, it's become super trendy
now. So it, well, maybe
not trendy, but, but more
into the mainstream now. So
it's, it's less of a
difficult thing to have a
conversation about, Hey, we should
start incorporating this into wherever
our learning environment is. So
Yeah. Why was, do you
think that nerds are still
a thing? Like I remember
like in the eighties, if
you had a soldering iron
or in the nineties, if
you had a garage full
of stuff, you know, you're,
you're a little weird, you
know, you visit someone's house,
you see their space and
then you see the clutter
and everyone's clutter is different,
right? There's a certain kind
of stereotype of, Oh, you're
one of those people you're
in the garage. Right? Evil
scientist, I think was the
word I was looking for.
But now I feel like
there's a lot more stuff
to make and there's a
lot more tools to use.
Definitely. Well, I think nerd
is kind of sexy now,
right? So, I mean, you've
got big bang theory. You've
got people looking really good.
Like, I mean, when I
was growing up and I
was definitely a nerd, I
was not cute. You know
what I mean? Like when
you were a nerd in
those days, eighties kid, you
really look like a nerd.
And I think today it's,
it's, it's, it's chic is
trendy. Nerds are, are probably
more manicured than they had
been. But I think the
interesting thing out of that
is it's it's, it's now
cool to be smart. It's
now cool to actually like
know something that maybe no
one else does. Like today
your rock star is considered
like a coder or an
entrepreneur, not just the person
who like, you know, bangs
on her drums in their
garage. So I think that's
been great. I think some
of the reason that that's
probably become the case now
is because we have more
people are actually interested in
reaching out to a greater
audience. So in my case,
like I teach a class
called hacking and building and
city university, New York. And I
expect that most students are
going to come in, not
having had any background at
all in electronics or programming,
have no idea what a
soldering iron is. Don't even
know where to get these
parts. And, but they are
interested because, you know, the
first thing I ever asked
me was, Oh, so we're
going to break into like
the FBI or CIA, which,
you know, that's always, I
can neither confirm nor deny
that. But I think that
because we're starting to see,
you know, the nerd is
now, you know, super rich,
right? You think of your
Facebook founder, even Microsoft and
people are curious or they're,
they're thinking like, what can
I build next then? And
you have more opportunity in
the form of hackathons and
in a form of contest
and in a form of,
of, of Kickstarters and crowdfunding.
So it's getting open now,
so that it's not a
matter of so much. Can
I do it, but what
do I want to do
and what resources are available
to me? So I think
what started out maybe seem
like, okay, be here today,
gone tomorrow is now just
almost expected that some aspect
of what you're doing and
what you might do, whether
it be, you know, you're
going to go to school
and then do a computer
science degree, or you're going
to be a full developer,
web developer will have some
aspect of kind of the
nerdy factor, but in a
very cool way. So I
want to dig into what
you said there is that
when people come in, they
don't necessarily have the preconceived
notions maybe that we did
in the past. They're like,
Oh, okay, this is how
this is done. And they
just, they jump in, you're
teaching people from all walks
of life who come into
your class. Yeah. I mean
the average student is probably
traditional college age. So anywhere
between 18 and again, a
few seniors. So 20 to
21, the courses are required.
So I don't want to
make it sound like it's
just so exciting to everybody.
It's just not, self-selected like,
Hey, It is, it's not
selected. Self-selected if you are
a communications technology major, but
I do get quite a
few students who are not
majors who take it as
an elective. And what I
find is that most of
them, if they've read the
syllabus are still not quite
sure what they're going to
encounter, but they're excited about
this idea of like we
purposing something. And then most
of them have heard of
three D printing. They've heard
of things like MakerBot. So
they're really excited about getting
into digital fabrication when it
comes to things like physical
computing, making your own, you
know, interactive wearables, or even
talking about some, some more
emergent technologies, like Bluetooth, low
energy. That's the kind of
thing that we delve into
maybe about halfway through once
they've got a confidence that
they can suddenly know what
it means to, you know,
cause an led light up
polarity, things of that nature.
So the first exercise I
do for a lot of
students is just have them
bring something in that, you
know, it was old or
dusty. Hopefully not. They're a
little brother's toy and just
tear it apart. And it's
really interesting sort of the
expressions and the response, because
a lot I'm like, wow,
like, I didn't know all
this was in here. Sometimes
it's very simple stuff. So
they're like, I didn't know.
It was just these few
parts. How does that work
together? But I think they're
the bridge between seeing what
at one point looked like,
just this thing that I'm
not concerned with, what's inside.
I just, I'm just consuming
this. I mean, they don't
say it that way. Black
box. Exactly. And then having
the sort of the reality
are reasonably and all of
a sudden that they can
actually build something like this.
Even if it's a rapid
flimsy prototype, it excites a
lot of them. Some people,
you know, end up deciding
they want to continue on
and some say, you know,
it was the toughest course
I've ever had. I'll never
do it again, but I'm
glad I passed. And I'm
glad I got to demo
what I made. So I
think for some people who
are listening, they might be
thinking, gosh, someone made it
to 20 years old and
never like took something apart.
When I think a lot
of us, I always use
the example of the clock
radio. Like the born nerd
takes apart, the clock radio,
when the mom and dad
aren't looking. And then if
you're lucky you put it
back together and it still
works. And then Yeah, I
was one of those kids
who took a lot of
things apart. I can't say
I always put it back
together again, we're at work,
but you know, one thing
I think that that's what's
happening is to speak to
the point about some people
who've never even had that
chance until later in life.
You know, I got to
do that real early and
for a while I thought
I was going to become
a scientist and our inventor
or an entrepreneur is like
one of the first words
I learned to spell. It's
just pretty funny. And you
know, by the time I
got to college, it was
more of a conversation around
you need to do something
practical, right? So this wasn't
in the two thousands and
yeah, I graduated around the
first.com wave without giving my
age away. So, but you
know, there was no thinking
that you're going to do
this. If you did want
to do something like that,
you're going into, you know,
an engineering field or you
might study computer science at
the academic level and maybe
do something for a company
that just wasn't as open
to where people could really
understand what they were doing.
So I think that having
the opportunity to play and
to figure things out and
then to realize that you
could actually make a career
of it is also is
turning a lot of students
into, you know, soon to
be or future makers. They
realize that I could be
Sheldon. I could also be
Mark, but more importantly, it
could be me. And here's
how I want to plug
in. And what I'm really
hoping will happen is, you
know, just the idea of
not just doing this within
a space of the four
walls of academia, which is
great because you get to
play and prototype and kind
of fail in a safe
way. But taking this out
into communities where people just
like you said, may not
have had any exposure to
this until maybe they're 40,
maybe they're 60. My mom
is probably the biggest influence
on me as far as
being a maker's Mozart and
she's, she doesn't do the
tech stuff, but I mean,
almost everything she's built and
you know, some stuff looks
really great and some stuff
could use Polish, but it's
just always been something that
I've been around. And what
I realized was that, you
know, whether you call yourself
maker with a big M
or maker, her a little
M it's really invention, right.
It's really play. It's really
creativity. And the current generation
of students that I encounter,
a lot of them really
just haven't had that exposure.
So if you sit them
in a room for 10
minutes, you say, okay, look,
here's a box, a paperclip
and Alright, MacGyver scenario. Right,
right. Make something, you know,
and it's amazing how they
look at me. They're like,
Oh, what could I do?
I mean, there's this idea
that it has to look
a certain way. And I
think that in academia, we,
because the, a lot of
the programs, I mean, even,
even starting a program like
hacking a building or a
course like that, just trying
to break students out of
the traditional experience, you know,
you, you, you take a
quiz, you take an exam,
you final exam. It's, it's,
it's an amazing transition. So
I found a lot of
times with those that I
encounter, they're not, they're not
used to giving a demo
at the end of the
semester. They're not used to
something not working and it
being okay. And what I've
found is that if you
can bring some of that
outside of the traditional academic
environment, it's a little bit
more encouraging. Cause I think
people feel a little bit
more safe to fail. It's
not, you're gonna worry about
failing or not receiving good
grade. Cause it's it's, your
project can be whatever you
want it to be. And
I think that's an important
part of the culture that
I'm hoping to dive into
full time. I think that
that concept of safe to
fail is so important for
early learners. Whether that early
learner is seven or that
early learners, 22, I've been
struggling with that with my,
my kids. I've got a
seven year old and a
nine year old and a
seven year old still has
this idea that he's supposed
to get it right on
the first try. And right
now we're three D printing,
a quad copter. And I
have no idea what I'm
doing. You know what I
mean? Like I have a
PDF and a bunch of
three D print and I
am sure it's going to
suck. And it probably will
never take off. Right. I
keep trying to remind them
of that at every. And
he's like, no, it's gonna
be awesome. Like what are
we flying it around? Like,
no, we're not. It's probably,
and so there's two things
there. There's the safe to
fail, but then there's the,
this is not something we're
going to do in a
weekend. It would be, you
know, next year we might
pull this off. Who knows.
Absolutely. You know, it's funny
because the same experiences that
I've had for a lot
of my students and it's,
it's amazing how they actually
get frustrated. Because again, going
back to sort of a
traditional learning experience, that's the
expectation, whatever you do needs
to be an a plus,
whatever you do must, you
know, so I think another
part that's, that's really a
key to this is creating
a culture. So, you know,
my students, we walk in
first day, I'll show them
the, Oh, I hope I
don't get fired for it's
the official syllabus. And then
I'll say, okay, and now,
Yeah, yeah. I was an
adjunct. I've done that before.
Okay. Yeah. And, and, you
know, I think, you know,
you have to make sure
that you're also meeting your
expectations and meeting your goals
and requirements. But I think
the minute they recognize that
it doesn't have to be
pretty. So an example, I
showed a project done by
Casey Kinzer some years ago
called tweet between bot. And
the idea was it was
a interactive robot, but it
was not, it was not
smart. It was like cardboard
and a motor and some
wheels. And, you know, she
puts this thing out in
a park in New York city.
And this is, you know,
post nine 11. So putting
things out in the parks,
probably not the, you don't
know what kind of results
you get, but she puts
us out. Then she all
that is the only prompt
that's on this robot is
a little message that says,
Hey, can you help me
get to the Northwest corner
of the park? I think
it was Northwest. And the
idea was experiment and see,
Hey, are new Yorkers, you
know, somewhat polite or they,
you know, as mean and
antisocial as people think they
are. And it was actually
a really cool experiment. She
went on and did some
Ted talks and it was,
you know, people really liked
it, but what stood out
in the minds of my
students and what I was
trying to explain to them
was, you know, with all
respect to John Ivy, like
it doesn't have to be
iPhone six, right? Your, your
first try, your 50th try
is important. Aesthetics are important,
but it, it absolutely does
not have to be what
you encountered in your first,
maybe even your 50th try.
And once you can get
past that, then you're free
to like, you know, take
your building blocks and make
really great things. And then
you can go back and
reiterate and make it look
pretty and nice and, you
know, put it up on
Kickstarter. So yeah, that's, that's
always a challenge. And I
think that documenting that too
is, is really important because
people see where they've come
from, lady, see how, you
know, really rigid they were.
And then they're like, there's
only two weeks left before
I have to get the
devil, whatever, let's just get
it done, you know? And,
but it's also been a
learning process that they actually,
if at farm, because it
is safe for them, I
think that you've been at
a number of really good
points there. I want to
touch on first, the documenting
it thing. Like I follow
these people on Instagram, these
fitness people. And while I
find selfie culture obnoxious, the
fitness people do it in
order to see progress. And
this is a standard working
thing. They, they prep, they
measure and they Reno and
then they cut and they
repeat. And I think we
as engineers have a tendency
to just zip up a
version or committed to source
code. Right. Right. We're not
nearly as regimented. I think
we could take something from
that culture and start looking
at a project and see
that, Hey, look, this actually
did move. It didn't feel
like it was moving, but
if you make six months
back, it made a difference.
Right. Yeah. I mean, and,
and, and again, you know,
whether you're in a traditional
classroom, you're in a Makerspace
or, you know, you're in
your basement, you know, that's,
that's part of the process.
A lot of the students,
and even some of my
non-students when, when I first
would introduce that we were
going to like document everything
and I have to admit,
like I have, I have
maybe 12,000 images and videos
sitting on my laptop that
have not made their way
to the social media. So
I'm, I'm definitely hypocrite when
it comes to that. But
you know, as far as
the student's progress is concerned,
that's important because you know,
it's easy to feel like
I should go from step
a and B and Z
in like two days. And
I think the first thing
that students learn is whatever
you think is going to
take like 20 minutes is
going to take you like
four hours and whatever it's
going to take you four
hours is going to take
you maybe like a week.
Right? And so you start
to learn to manage the
expectation, but you also have
this encouragement, periodic encouragement, because
you can look back and
say, okay, I did make
some progress. It's not quite
what I was expecting, but
I did make some progress.
Right. This is a really
tough lesson for people to
learn though, because well, well,
we, myself, yourself and people
who think like us, I've
just put us in a
group, by the way, in
case you didn't notice a
want to go out there
and getting people to turn
that led on right. As
fast as possible so that
they have that moment. Then
we say, okay, that was
great. You got an led
to turn on. It only
took you 10 minutes and
now your next project is
going to take you six
to eight weeks. And that's
what to be a year,
right? So I think people
get spoiled, you know, they
can go and type something
in a command line. And
they've got a Ruby on
rails blog. And two seconds
now learn to code. It'll
take a year, right? How
do we teach that patience?
And that to me is
just have as many different
experiences as possible. So one,
one thing that I've experimented
with is students get to
work on their own individual
projects, but then they also
have to complete a lab.
And at the same time,
as they get towards maybe
the last four to six
weeks of the semester, they
then have to work collaboratively.
So what I found is
that when you work in
a group, well, do I
need to say any more
right when you work in
a group, but when you
work in a group, you
have to learn to work
with other people's pace. You
have to figure out like,
you know, who's going to
do what, and, you know,
if somebody slacks off the
product still needs to get
done. And in my courses,
everyone earned the same grade,
but then I have a
separate metric to measure people
against themselves and measuring people
against himself as really important,
because it keeps people from
feeling like, you know, I
should give up because this
person is like way better
than programming than I am,
but this person's, you know,
way better at arranging a
circuit of figuring out like
why there's a short. So
I think that being able
to measure yourself against yourself
as important, I think the
other part that probably has
worked well in, in helping
people to get become patient
is it's it's one semester.
And you know, if you
find it, you like this,
you can continue next semester.
If it doesn't work in
the semester, you know, you
can go hang out at
a Makerspace or, you know,
chime in on a challenge
post. So just getting people
involved in different experiences. So
they see that the process
of making something from start
to finish varies, depend on
what you're doing, what the
setup or parameters are around
that. And then even your
teammates, even when you're working
by yourself. Like for me,
I know my biggest problem
is procrastination. I do not
like pressure, but for some
reason, it always comes down
to like, Oh, there's a
week left. You, you need
to like, get it going.
So 2:00 AM the day it's
due for exactly. You know?
And then that's when everything
fails. So, you know, those
little lessons help you learn
about yourself and they also
help you figure out, you
know, like, am I, the
type person needs like plan
everything. And if I do,
I learned that not everything's
going to work as, as
planned. And if I'm the
type person who just takes
it in stride, I realize
more structure is probably gonna
help me create a better
product or project and also
feel good about myself because
I got it done. So
I think all of those
things play into helping people
to be more patient it's
hard. Cause we live in
like a push button in
society. So the idea is
push and is there, it's
a challenge. Hey folks, I
wanted to take a moment
to tell you about Reagan
and their new product called
pulse. Reagan is an error
and crash reporting software provider
and their new product pulse
to realtime user monitoring product.
It gives you performance data
and user insights. Lets you
understand exactly what's happening when
users interact with your software.
So you're never left guessing.
Reagan provides you with the
answers to your performance questions
and they've found over 10 billion
that's billion with a B
bugs and customer apps with
their crash reporting product. And
now Reagan will help you
understand application quality. Like no
one else over 30,000 developers
worldwide, can't be wrong. I
use Ray gun and all
the time and I enjoy
it very much. You can
try it out today with
a no risk 30 day
free trial start improving your
software quality immediately try Reagan
for free today@reagan.io. I had
Keisha Rogers on a couple
of months ago, who's talking
about systems thinking and how
we spend all this time
trying to teach people how
to code, but not how
to think about systems, right?
And while you're, while you
were saying what you were
saying a moment ago there,
I realized that what I
do with any large project,
whether it be a coding
project or a larger creative
project, that youth for the
physical and the software is,
it's not just breaking things
down into functions. It's breaking
things down into tiny victories.
Yeah. Wow. I like that.
Okay. So like you'll have
to break this into a
function. I'm like, no, no.
I want to break it
into something that I can
succeed at and go, yay
me. Right? Like I, I
made the worst soldering joint
yesterday. It was like, I
just basically got halfway through
it and said, screw it.
And then I just duct
tape the whole thing. I'm
pretty sure it's safe. Like
I'm pre it's only five
volts. I'm pretty sure it's
not going to burn the
house down. But basically I
was, I'll just be like,
it's very small story. I'm
trying to get this three
D printer to plug into
an ATX power supply so
I can have the heated
bed. And right now I
have one thing plugged into
the wall for the raspberry
PI another thing plugged into
the wall to get five
volts to the printer itself
and then another whatever Watts
for the bed, I've got
three things plugged into the
wall and I got this
ATX power supply. Right. So
I'm, I'm leaving. I decided
I'll just leach power off
this way. Strip the wires
off of the USB cable.
And I start figuring out
what's is five volts. And
I'm like, you know, how
do I not die? And
it looked like a big
problem. Like I'm not a
real good hardware person, but
I was like, okay, let's
just break this down. I'm
just going to solder these
two wires together. And that's,
today's tiny victory and I'm
going to check this with
a multimeter and that's today's
tiny victory. Right. And even
though I ended up just
using electrical tape in the
end, it works. I plug
one thing into the wall
and it powers all three
and nothing is burst into
flames yet. Thank goodness. Amen.
Yeah. And, and I think
that's again where I, I
go back to the point
of like measuring yourself against
yourself. Right. And, and having
those little victories do help
and knowing that that's the
victory rate. So like this
victory. Exactly. Yes, yes. Thank
you for that. Yeah. You're
welcome. Oh, I think you
inspired me, but yeah. I
mean, definitely knowing it's a
victory because you know, again,
when you're getting started in
this stuff, you don't know.
Right? Like you, you don't
literally, when I started soldering
exercise, students take like a
piece of wire loop it
and solder the two ends
together and they're so excited,
you know? And I say,
Hey, go take this home.
That now that works really
well for my seven year
old. I wasn't really sure
if it worked with my
20 something year olds, but
you'd be surprised. They are
all excited. I want to
come back to me and
say, Hey, look, I still
have the little ring that
I saw her, so, Oh,
you can make him solder
or ring with. Oh, that's
literally. Yeah. It's yeah. Yeah.
So the guys like it
too, but This gets down
to a recurring theme that
I've talked about on the
show over the last year,
which is this represents power.
Yes. Whether we're talking about
new people in technology, whether
we're talking about underrepresented people
in technology, whether they're young
or they're old, the reason
that this is important, the
reason that maker with a
capital M is important is
his power where the capital
is. Yeah, absolutely. I mean
like I've been alive for
the entire existence of the
world, but I think this
is probably the best time
to be alive because there
is so much opportunity. There
are so many resources. So,
you know, before we started
this podcast, we were like
joking around about grad school
and finishing and paying for
it. Right. So, so this,
this was my motivation. When
I went to a small
college in Ohio, it was
a family school. What that
means is your sibling goes
to school and then you
go to school because you're
on scholarship and they're on
scholarship. And it has nothing
to do, whether you want
to go there and outright,
right? Like I fought my
parents for like a year,
you know, got grandfathered in
or something that they did.
It was great, but it
wasn't the school I wanted
to do. 10. Nevertheless, when
I graduated, I thought I
wanted to work on wall
street. So I start teaching
myself finances, keep in mind,
this is a very, very
small school. So they had
no finance program. This was
right around the time when
people were starting to get
interested in financial engineering and
eventually wants to do quads
and all stuff. And somehow
I thought that's what I
wanted to do. So I
ended up going to Columbia
for a while and just
like a semester was ridiculously
like cost prohibited for me.
I could not afford it.
I worked hard and I
pay for a semester. I
end up going for like
a year. And I was
like, I can't finish. I
can't even get into the
program. Can't afford it. Same
thing with ITP, $80,000. Awesome.
For grad program NYU, but
pretty expensive for most of
the people that I'm connecting
with. And it suddenly occurred
to me because one really
nice thing about ITP interactive
telecommunications program at New York university.
One really nice thing about
them is they put everything
online. They're very open. They're
basically like MIT media labs.
So they focus on a
lot of the recent or
newly emerged technology and they
do it within a context
of art. So it's a
very nice place to play
for play for two years
and feel comfortable and feel
safe if you can afford
it. And what I took
away from the program and
finish. But what I took
away from the program was
amazing support, extremely open in
terms of sharing knowledge. And
it dawned on me that
like, why can't this be
anywhere? You know, why can't
this be everywhere? There's really
it's I don't to say
it's not rocket science, but
it really isn't. And that's
where this idea of like
breaking beyond the four walls
and making every space, a
maker space and creating a
culture around being collaborative, being
open, be objective around learning.
Because if you, the most
important thing I think you
could start with is first
building culture that says I
can and then saying, okay,
now what resource do I
need access to? And you
know, when you're doing these
things, a lot of times,
no one is an expert,
right? So you have the
opportunity to get in early
and become your own expert,
so to speak. So going
back to this idea about
making why such an exciting
time is maybe you didn't
do so well in high
school in calculus, maybe you,
you know, like took precalc
four times and you know,
college cause you were, I
dunno, a sociology major and
you didn't have to do
it, but you need to
graduate all those things as
helpful as they can be.
Especially as we start going
more computer science topics, it's
still not a barrier. It's
it's you may go so
far before you need to
start delving into some more
advanced topics, but it's literally
democratized how you learn around
engineering, how you learn around
programming, coding, how you learn
around making and to make
that equitable. I'm trying not
to be too PC, but
to make that equitable, you
need people who are willing
to say, okay, maybe I'm
not going to spend half
a semester or a full
semester at a university teaching
the stuff, but maybe I
can document this online and
maybe I can, you know,
run this in a place
like general assembly or my
local church or my coffee
shop. You know, when they
don't have peak hours, maybe
I can take five people
and just show them how
to do it, or do
a hangout on Google groups.
So more people thinking about
this and being willing to
step up, whoever they know,
right? You don't have to
necessarily know everything about Bluetooth,
low energy or blockchain, but
whatever, you know, like let's
take this and now let's,
let's fold this into a
Wiki. Let's get people pair
program using Adam, like just
these very open resources to
make this reality and Very
similar ideas about this. Because
every time you learn something,
if you don't tell anyone
about it, then exactly what
good is that you? Yeah.
I mean, that was, I
mean, congratulations, but that's a
little selfish, you know, I
always say if you learn
something, put a URL on
it. Sure. Yeah. It doesn't
matter where that is. Wiki,
you know, blog, God forbid
SharePoint somewhere that you can
then say, look what I
learned, videotape it, take pictures.
This comes back to what
you said originally about documenting,
right? It's not just for
yourself, but it's also for
other people. And I think
that, you know, people look
at me sometimes on my
blog and say, Oh, he's
an expert. It's like, no,
I'm a, like a professional
amateur. I just just been
documenting it for a very,
very, very long time. I
know what you mean. Sure.
Yeah. I mean, it's what
did I used to call
myself? I'm a specialized generalist.
Right. And that's my way
of not saying that. I
know absolutely nothing about, you
know, whatever. I mean, just
right. You, you play and
you try and you know,
for me, I think that
the thing that's, you need
something to motivate you to
write. So what motivates me
is I I'm a new
Yorker, right? So I commute
by bus and train. I
live in Queens. I know
not sexy, but that's the
case and the wouldn't anything
about this, God I know,
but you're driving, I'm sure
we're bike, but you know,
around here it's, it's not,
you know, it's not bad
to take public transit. Hey,
I'm from Portland. We like,
we're all about That's true.
That or biking. Right, right.
Oh, biking. But so there's
this intersection, it's a major
intersection and there are several
buses that serve each angle.
And there's a lot of
seniors that take the bus
and repeatedly. And it's one
particular intersection. There's always at
least three people who are
trying to cross against the
light to make it to
the bus. On the other
side of the street, they're
all going the same direction.
These all go to like
a major Depot because you
know, you're kind of playing
a game of chicken. You're
like, is my bus gonna
come here? Or can I
wait, fix you five? Or
should I get on 84?
And you know, we're, we're
so tied to like our
mobile phones and you know,
wearables and that's okay. That's
sexy. But you know, what
about the demographic of people
that use the bus at
generally probably don't have the
latest, greatest OSTP on their
mobile phone, or maybe they
don't have their mobile phone
at all, or maybe, Well,
they don't need to ask
that question. Exactly. You should.
Should that information be something
like, when is my bus
coming in where it should
only be relegated to on
a mobile phone? So my,
I would say no. And
I think also because just
the, a good percentage of
writers don't have access to
the technology side, the MTA
was developing for like iOS
as opposed to Android. So
I started thinking about network
public artifacts. And it was
like, well, you know what,
if your stop sign or
the bus stop sign lit
up when your route, your
bus on your route was
near you. Right. And if
you have more than one
route, how would you know?
So, you know, blank within
two stops, you know, keep
blinking. And then if you
don't say anything clashing, you
know, you missed the bus,
right? Most people know generally
how far apart these bus
stops are. So they know
like if I see it
blinking height, I could run,
I could walk or I'll
stay where I am and
Housing, these things, don't like,
this is such an obvious,
brilliant idea. Like why isn't
the entire bus? A what's
it called? Like the, when,
when it's raining, you're in
the bus shelter. Yeah. Why
doesn't the whole shelter flash?
Why aren't there LEDs the
white light? Like why isn't
it connected shelter? That's blinking
the buses coming. Right. Well,
you know, here in New York
scale, That scale is more
than a $600 iPhone. I
totally agree. In New York, there's
a lot of politics around
like who owns what? So
there's apartment transportation. And I
shouldn't be saying this, but
MTA love you guys, but
there's a lot of politics
around it, but what's been
really nice is with our
current mayor, he's been very
interested in a connected city.
So we have so many
call NYC, big apps and
whole point behind that love
for major talking points. One
of those is connected cities.
So I think it's a
little bit of timing, but
the really awesome thing, just
tying this back into opportunity
and everyone is makers is
there is no minimum requirement
for submitting an idea and
having the opportunity to be
incubated by the city of
New York on this project. So
this idea could be something
that I can work on.
It could be something that
you can work on, we
can contribute and get hub,
whatever it doesn't matter. And
I think that what's missing
is not this opportunity, but
who do we want to
include in the conversation that
isn't online necessarily, or isn't
on GitHub, right? So the
more we work out these
channels when the, that will
help people know about these
opportunities, regardless of where they
are, right. Regardless of whether
they're in school. And that's
why I know about big,
big apps or whether they're
at civic hall, these are
just local resources that they'll
have an opportunity to say,
okay, I want to get
involved. And then next step
is you open it up
to the lowest or least
common denominator of skill and
expertise, which means that you
shouldn't have to be a
developer or programmer. You don't
have to be an engineer.
You just need to be
a user of the transit
service. Right. And then from
there, you can think about
these things. So when you
have these collaborations and you
have the ability to post
your idea on something like
big apps and is a
potential to collaborate with others
and to receive some kind
of support for it, I
think incentivizes a whole group
of people who, first of
all, it's for them, that's
why they'll be interested in
it, but it also incentivizes
them to be involved in
actual design development as opposed
to, okay, well, I'll just
wait until this is done
by the MTA or DLT.
And then, and then I'll
be happy to use it.
Right. Which doesn't work that
way, but this is the
opportunity we have now. You
didn't have that before. Right.
And it's also early that
there's no one that can
say, well, we don't know
if we really want to
go with your model because
such and such as an
expert, who's an expert. Like
who's an expert in blockchain,
who's an expert in Bluetooth,
low energy, right there. There's
still relatively young technologies. Even
though, you know, we have
quite a few meetups and
other opportunities where corporations are
supporting these things, but it's
a vast frontier, vast frontier.
So to start with an
led is like the spark
and in the next step
is where do you see
an led wherever you are,
whether it's your house, whether
it's your park and now
how do we take what
we've learned, just the basics,
right? And then build upon
those things to make it
happen. Stoplights, bus stops, whatever
trash cans that talk and
tell you I'm full like
MTV, whatever. Right. But these
are the things that are
important. It starts with, you
know, just what we've been
talking about, culture around it,
the resources, the openness, the
documentation, and managing expectations. Do
you know, you're making me
want to go put a
lid on it. I can
I go and put an
led on, cause there's so
many, it's such a more
scalable way of having a
connected city than it is
to connect all the people
with expensive supercomputers in their
pockets. You know? And I
think that the other thing
is too, this is an
amazing opportunity because if we
can convince, and I think
that we probably will if
this particular competition this year,
but if we can convince
people of exactly what you
said, you know, we have
an opportunity. I think the,
the, the, the proven resource
is well by such and
such. Everybody's going to have
a mobile phone dash. True,
but not everyone. Not all
mobile phones are the same,
not, not all operating systems
equal what might seem like
a very small bill. I
remember when our president was
supporting the, you know, the
low income phones and he
like, yeah. Or, and even
healthcare for the price of
cell phone bill. And I
kept thinking myself, well, wait
a minute. Who cell phone
bill? Cause some cell bills
are like 40 bucks and
some are like 200 and
change depending on what you've
been doing, especially with teenagers.
So, you know, we've, we've
got it. It's right now
it's corporate Lee viable to
use what exists. Right. So
use like the iOS and
Android platforms, but that's consumer
tech. So we can get
more people interested in, I
guess I call it consumer
to consumer. It could be
business to business, but you
know, you having a hand
in prototyping the future of
your city, I think that's
how you gain traction. And
that's how you get the
support of companies like at
and T or IBM, they're
all looking for this. Like,
I, I sat in on
like a really, really awesome
workshop. And I was amazed.
There was like 50 people
in a room in a
city of like 8 million people.
Right. So the point is
that there's definitely more room
for people to get involved.
We just have to be
willing to, you know, break
beyond the four walls. I
love academia's paid me, but
you know, we have to
kind of get beyond that.
And I think this is
a time that we have
the ability to do that.
People who are interested can
check that out at big
apps dot N Y C.
That's the really nice top
level domain, big apps.nyc. Yes.
That's very cool. John C. Hayes. Thank
you so much for chatting
with us today. Thanks for
having me. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.